# 0001: Policies about Policies

## Rationale

We have a diverse group of people with varying ideas, availability, and background.
By agreeing to some basic policies, and ensuring they are codified and well documented,
we can ensure everyone working on the project is aware of the intended way of doing certain things.

By having a clear set of guidelines, people are empowered to work on things with confidence that
they are doing things in a way consistent with the goals of the project.

## What this isn't

We shouldn't make overly restrictive policies aimed toward contributors.

These policies should serve to guide the direction of new features,
how those new features are added, how releases work, and how we plan to interact with
the community of cog creators.

If a policy has an impact on the average new contributor,
it needs to be in the issue/PR templates. 
Policies should serve to clear the way to do things with more clarity on direction,
not serve as only obstacles to progress.

No policy should be considered final.
Just because a policy was rejected,
doesn't mean it can't be reviewed later if circumstances change.
Any policy can be revised at a later date by another policy.

## How policies should be made

Policies have an impact on everyone who uses Red, but the largest impact is on those who maintain Red.
These are the guidelines we use when making decisions beyond just "Does this work?"

Policies should be made, and left open for discussion before anything else.

While it may require a vote, concerns brought up within a reasonable window should be addressed. Concerns which come up after a policy has already been decided on may lead to a revision if deemed neccessary.

If there are enough votes to satisfy the full requirements, nothing else is required to accept a policy. This allows policies with overwhelming initial support to be accepted with minimal delay.

A policy may be accepted provisionally by default if open with some support and no objections after an acceptable time frame.

## Voting process

* Everyone in the cog creators organization has a direct vote.
* If a policy is about one of the following, specific teams have their vote elevated in importance
  * Policies about Red's code:
    - Veto Power: Core Developers
    - Additional Requirements:
      - 1 or More Core Developers in favor
  * Policies about Reviewing Red's code:
    - Veto Power: Core Developers, QA
    - Additional Requirements:
      - 1 or more members of QA must be in favor
  * Policies about Automation:
    - Veto Power: Core Developers, Operations
  * Policies about 3rd party cog creators:
    - Veto Power: QA
    - Addtional Requirements:
      - At least 1 member of QA must be in favor

These powers and requirements exist so that those
most impacted by a policy decision have more say in those decisions.

### Veto Power

Veto power is not absolute. It only adds a requirement that if someone exercises it,
That a majority of people with that power vote in favor.
It is not intended to let any one person shoot things down on their own.
If a vote against does not require exercising veto power,
You must explicity state using such power,
as there can be a difference between disagreeing,
and wanting to block something until further discussion and voting.

### Conditions for full acceptance from policy

A policy may be voted into full acceptance under any of the following circumstances:

1. A simple majority agrees, and nobody with veto power exercises that power.
2. A simple majority agrees, and a simple majority of people with veto power agree.


### Conditions for provisional acceptance

A policy may be accepted provisionally under any of the following circumstances:

1. A full vote, made with a statement that it's a vote for a provisional acceptance.
2. The additional requirements (if any) are met, and the policy has been open for 1 week without opposition.


### Lifetime of a provisional policy

At any point in the first month of a policy being provisional, objections may be raised.
Should objections be raised, they do not immediately invalidate the proposal.

These should be discussed.

A vote may be made immediately if the impact requires this,
but discussion first should be preferred.

If there are objections which have not been resolved by the end of a month, a vote on acceptance is required. If there is not a consensus on accepting, the policy should be rejected.

If at the end of a month there are still no objections,
the policy can be accepted under a de facto acceptance if the author
(and the additional requirements if they apply) feel it has worked as intended.
