# Outside Collaborators

There is a need to define a label for and track outside collaborators that may require specific access to org controlled GitHub repositories. This can include users who need the write permission to org-owned repos while not being a [member of the Cog-Creators org](https://github.com/orgs/Cog-Creators/people). A possible example for this definition includes large Red-related projects that may not yet be part of the core bot, where the org would like to foster the development of the said project and/or work closely with the collaborator(s).


A person could be invited to become a collaborator if they need elevated repo-level permissions on an org-owned repo as determined by org members. An org vote to add the individual to this designation is needed under [Policy 6](6.md). This action does not fall under [Policy 2](2.md) as an outside collaborator is not being added to the org itself as a member.


Outside collaborators need to be actively working on their project to maintain their permissions. After a period of 3 months with no activity, the collaborator’s permissions must be moved down to triage to adhere to the idea in Proposal 2 in keeping the principle of least privilege. Either a declaration of intending to continue work or actively resuming work on their part of the project again (discussions, commits, etc) are required to allow the outside collaborator to become active again with write permissions to their part of the project.

## Amendments:

1. Outside collaborators will be entitled to a vote on any votes called which affect the repositories they maintain, these include votes under [Policy 1](1.md) and [Policy 6](6.md). Their votes must be cast in line with [Policy 7](7.md).
2. Outside collaborators will keep their credit in all "copyright" lines (including the "copyright" lines in license notices). [Cog-Creators](https://github.com/Cog-Creators) will be added to all "copyright" lines as a second "copyright" holder.
3. The organization may choose to retain control of the repository in the event of the removal of an outside collaborators, outside collaborators will agree to this by showing their acceptance in becoming an outside collaborator.